das ist der textfile
Osbert Parsley (1510/1511–1585) was an English Renaissance composer and chorister who wrote mainly church music for both the Latin and English rites, as well as instrumental music. He was a boy chorister at Norwich Cathedral, where he spent his musical career. He was first mentioned as a lay clerk, was appointed a "singing man" around 1534, and was probably the cathedral's unofficial organist for half a century. His works include the elegant polyphonic Conserva me, domine, two Morning Services, an Evening Service, and the five-part Lamentations. His Latin settings are considered to be more fluent and attractive than those to be sung in English. His instrumental music, nearly all for viols, included six consort pieces. Some of his incomplete instrumental music has survived. He died in Norwich in 1585 and was buried in Norwich Cathedral, where he has a commemorative plaque (pictured). Compositions that have been recorded include his Lamentations and Spes Nostra.
By the start of the 1570s, Parsley was being paid £12 a year, and the five other men in the cathedral choir were paid either £10 or £8, equivalent to the pay given to an unskilled construction worker. A decade later, the cathedral choirmaster, responsible for both the men's and boys' choirs, was being paid £12.[13] The composer Thomas Morley, master of the choirboys from 1583, had a salary not much more than those of the singing men.[14]
In 1578, Elizabeth I and her court came to Norwich as part of a royal progress, and the city was expected to provide accommodation, banquets and entertainment. Then the second city in England after London, Norwich was one of the few cities in the kingdom with such sufficient numbers of skilled musicians, but even so it had to resort to using viol, trumpet and cornett players from Elizabeth's entourage.[15] Elizabeth, in the company of her courtiers, the most prominent of Norwich's citizens, and the clergy of the cathedral, heard a Te Deum by Parsley sung during the first evening of her visit,[2] with the choir being supported by the city's waits.[15] Parsley was paid 6+1⁄2 shillings for the songs he had written and sang during the queen's visit.[2] His music was also performed before Elizabeth when she returned to Norwich in 1597.[16] None of his compositions for her visits to Norwich have survived.[15] 
